# Pewlett-Hackard-Analysis
Module 7, SQL, Employee Database
## Introduction
Pewlett-Hackard (PH) is a large company, hosting several thousand employees.  PW has also been around for numerous years.  As the "baby-boomer" generation retires, PH will be faced with offering retirement packages and filling those vacated positions.  PH has fallen behind in the database department, and it will be Bobby's and my task to get this organized for the company. To help Bobby prepare for his analysis, we will need to download the following tools: PostgreSQL and pgAdmin. We will use Postgres to create a database, and pgAdmin to work with the data that needs to be imported. We will be conducting our analysis using Structured Query Language (SQL).  Like Python, SQL requires a code editor with the ability to execute the queries.  We will use PostgreSQL and pgAdmin.  
### Lesson 1
Today, I added six csv files to the Data folder, which will be used in the upcoming week.  PostgresSQL was downloaded with pgAdmin.  I identified data relationships between the six different csv files.  I learned the importance of identifying primary keys (PK) and foreign keys (FK).  This will help me create relationships between the different files.  Using Entity Relationship Diagrams (ERDs), I will create a flowchart between the tables.  There are three types of ERDs:  conceptual, logical, and physical.  Each type builds upon the other.  I created my map of the tables using Quick DBD and saved the diagram as a PNG for future reference. 
### Lesson 2
Lesson 2, Data Engineering was about creating a database, tables in SQL, importing CSV files, and troubleshooting the imports.  I learned that before creating an ERD diagram, it is important to understand the CSV files that I will be working with.  Several tables that I created from my ERD diagram had to be modified.  The PKs and FKs had to be adjusted because some of the PK columns had duplicate identifiers.  A PK must have unique identifiers; therefore, I had to create additional PK and FK relationships before the CSV files could be imported.  
### Lesson 3
I started to perform the analysis that I was tasked with:  future-proofing the company by determining how many people might be retiring.  I created a new csv file, "retirement_info" that holds all the names of the employees that might be retiring.  I filtered the query using birthdates between 1952 and 1955, and hire dates between 1985 and 1988.  There are a total of 41,380 employees eligible for retirement.  Wow!  I learned how to export a Postgres query table to a CSV file.  The next lesson taught me how to use "join" and explained the different types.  I used join in conjuction with existing CSV files to create new databases.  I also learned about aliases, Count, Group By and Order By.  I created Sseveral more lists/databases.  As a final exercise, I created two specific lists:  one tailored to the Sales Department and another tailored to both the Sales and Development departments. It is time to begin the Module Challenge.  
